docs: notes on various forms of k8s upgrade disruptions (#4032)
2i2c-org/infrastructure: docs/howto/upgrade-cluster/upgrade-disruptions.md

(upgrade-cluster:disruptions)=

# About upgrade disruptions

When we upgrade our Kubernetes clusters we can cause different kinds of
disruptions, this text provides an overview of them.

## Kubernetes api-server disruption

K8s clusters' control plane (api-server etc.) can be either highly available
(HA) or not. EKS clusters, AKS clusters, and "regional" GKE clusters are HA, but
"zonal" GKE clusters are not. A few of our GKE clusters are zonal still, but as
the cost savings are minimal we only create for regional clusters now.

If upgrading a zonal cluster, the single k8s api-server will be temporarily
unavailable, but that is not a big problem as user servers and JupyterHub will

> remains accessible. The brief disruption is that JupyterHub won't be able to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remain accessible. The brief disruption is that JupyterHub won't be able to
```

start new user servers, and user servers won't be able to create or scale their
dask-clusters.

## Provider managed workload disruptions

When upgrading a cloud provider managed k8s cluster, it may upgrade some managed
workload part of the k8s cluster, such as calico that enforces NetworkPolicy

> rules. Maybe this could cause a disruption for users, but its not currently know
> to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rules. Maybe this could cause a disruption for users, but its not currently known
if it does and in what manner.
```

## Core node pool disruptions

Disruptions to the core node pool is a disruption to workloads running on it,
and there are a few workloads that when disrupted would disrupt users.

### ingress-nginx-controller pod(s) disruptions

The `support` chart we install in each cluster comes with the `ingress-nginx`
chart. The `ingress-nginx` chart creates one or more `ingress-nginx-controller`
pods that are proxying network traffic associated with incoming connections.

To shut down such pod means to break connections from users working against the
user servers. A broken connection can be re-established if there is another

> replica of this pod is ready to accept a new connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
replica of this pod ready to accept a new connection.
```

We are currently running only one replica of the `ingress-nginx-controller` pod,
and we won't have issues with this during rolling updates, such as when the
Deployment's pod template specification is changed or when manually running
`kubectl rollout restart -n support deploy/support-ingress-nginx-controller`. We

> will however have broken connections and user pods unable to establish new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will however have broken connections and user pods unable to establish new connections
```

directly if `kubectl delete` is used on this single pod, or `kubectl drain` is
used on the node.

### hub pod disruptions

> Our JupyterHub installations each has a single `hub` pod, and having more isn't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our JupyterHub installations each have a single `hub` pod, and having more isn't
```

supported by JupyterHub itself. Due to this, and because it has a disk mounted

> to it that can only be mounted at the same time to one pod, it isn't configured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to it that can only be mounted to one pod at a time, it isn't configured
```
